hello everyone and welcome to the ipfs
weekly call this call where we're able
to see the cool stuff that people are
doing in the ipfs community and today
we'll get right into it
I am Preston from Pierre eCos is going
to tell us about his project which is
Yui p2p storage so we'll learn about how
he's using IPS and learn more about this
really interesting project so we're just
gonna get right into it and I am Preston
or dr. Preston if you can start sharing
that'd be great thank you good yes
yeah okay yep Rio is your data secure
sadly for most people the answer is no
so as a portraitist and I'm going to
introduce you to ping us and tell you
how would you what we do and why the
first let started some motivation so
what do we what am I trying to do what
we're trying to do with PMS I want to
store my files online but without
Dropbox being able to read them I want
to be able to share my photos
selectively but without Facebook scene
and I only bare-assed all my files
somewhere but not in a company that
could go bankrupt we dig a little deeper
we can split our desires into three main
categories the first one is security so
we want a safe login and also that means
was a lot of you mean in a decentralized
system strong crypto ideally post
quantum you wanna hide file metadata
like names and sizes and directory
structures and we want to be independent
of the TLS certificate authorities and
DNS thankfully ipfs makes the last two
quite easy the second main category is
control how we want to be self hosted
again I'd be fair solves most of the
hard problems there we're going to be
able to selectively share files now with
the fine-grained access control we don't
know exploded that to anyone not even
the service provider but I don't mean
the storage program and we'll treat you
darkness so no need to put in a phone
number or even an email address and
finally if you want anyone to actually
use it it has to be convenient and these
days convenience means a web interface
so you should be able to log in from any
device should have easy file syncing
across devices you should be able to
publish files to people who are not
users of the network in an easy way
essentially it should be as convenient
as Dropbox or Facebook so
South control the overall architecture
we have here we have
ipfs as we know is that is a Content
address data store the mapping from IDNs
or equivalent to it is basically mapping
from public key to a hash we use I've
been s itself yet I would like to and
the only other thing we have is
essentially a PKI which itself stores
its data a night BFS and IP NS and so a
peg loss server talks to these these
three main components and a client it
goes client talks to a peg or server and
the only only data is outside of ipfs
are these things called the follow
requests and that's how we implement the
social science things and we will see
why they like this where the structure
so the global structure you have a
global file system and essentially you
get space under your user name in the
global file system and this is why we
are partially why we ensure unique user
names so you have everything has a
well-defined path and your file system
has a tree of symmetric keys now use
tweet NaCl and we have cryptographic
links between these keys in a structure
called crypto which I'll talk more about
in a second and so you end up with a
location plus a key is cryptographic
access token or a capability and that
allows you to do something like read a
file or read a directory will write we
explicitly done use converting
encryption because that leads the
contents of your files and this is a
diagram of the tree structure used
you can see we've got a directory on the
left a subdirectory in the middle and
file on the right so each box is a
symmetric key and each arrow is is a
link from one key to another and by link
I mean it's the the target key encrypted
with the source key so if you have one
of these keys you can follow links from
that key
around the diagram and drive all the
keys and so yeah so you can see a
directory has two keys a base key and a
parent key the base key controls access
to the children of that directory and
the parent key gives you access to two
things but one thing really is is the
path so it encrypts the metadata of that
directory which is its name mostly and
it also has a link to its parents parent
key so you can follow the the back links
back to figure out the the path of what
are you looking at files on the right we
also have two keys but don't files don't
have any children so the base key there
is the parent key and the other key is
the donor key which is used to encrypt
the actual data and similarly the
metadata which has more things now it's
like file size and mime type and so on
they're all encrypted with the parent
key
now this this is the treat for
controlling read access so if I wanted
to share a file with someone as well as
the location which we'll talk about
later you share this this parent key for
the file the base key
similarly Pro directory and that gives
you access to the entire subtree of that
directory with just the one to one key
and location and the corresponding
structure to this for right access looks
a lot simpler so in this diagram the the
red boxes symmetric keys like in
previous one the green ones as you can
see that na key PES siding key base so
basically every files and directories
look the same from this this point this
the right-click trees point of view so
there's just one key for it for each
thing and that key has a link to or what
encrypts the the key pair for that
directory or file and so if someone has
the the base right key for a theme that
means that they can then derive the key
pair and that key pair is is it's
effectively the IPS keep their which is
used to sign modifications to do two
thing and so that means that they can
then modify it so we've taken the view
the right access implies read access
that the trees are actually independent
but you only ever share Y access will
read access UNIX doesn't technically do
that but the exceptions done don't
really apply to the files they're more
for things like a service that's
listening and you can you can write
become read it kind of thing so you
think that makes sense so that's I'm
going to talk now about what what
actually happens when we're uploading
the files so we take the raw file we
split it into five megabytes chunks each
of those five Meg trunks is
independently encrypted and those are
then Charlotte into 40 frames with a few
things
within each fight make chunk of rounding
it up so that you can't you introduce
the size of the file modulo five mate so
come over exactly I think we reran
allowed two modules at least four okay
maybe more and then anyway so during
upload these these encrypted frequency
but those might be first and then we
have an encrypted metadata the critter
II blob with local links to these
fragment hashes and each of those
tree things ends up in another data
structure called a champ so this is an
IP ID diagram so these links and mobile
links and you can see that you have chap
nodes and then eventually you get to a
tree node and that limb boy - if
it's a file file fragments and the way
we've done it is there's the
serialization you can't actually from
the network spotted me you can't figure
out if something is a directory or just
a small file so the serialization is
identical for both so that helps you to
hide the the directory structure but
even the judge even just in topology of
a little uma names so how to share a
work so we used a public boxing key and
to send a photo request what I do is I
create a directory for that friend in my
space and I send a read capability to
this directory and I encrypt it to the
friends public boxing key
and this thing gets sent and stored on
the on the friends storage server until
they next login and retrieve it and then
they delete now after they processed it
so what this means so that that sharing
mechanism currently that's co-chief fi
1:9
so i mean scared mai-san files currently
one or two it to a large quantum
computer if someone had but will move to
your post quantum encryption scheme as
soon as are clear canada arise which is
progressing rapidly so now the next
calorie convenience so what does a login
mean in a decentralized system so we've
explained already that piggy got some
capability based so we can't stop
someone from getting the ciphertext of
something what we can do is control
access to keys and so what we do is you
take your password and salts it with
your username and send it through a
memory hard hashing function called
script and it's tuned to take a second
and the output of that is three things
we get a a root symmetric key assigning
keep it which is your identity key pair
and a boxing key pair as well and these
are only ever stored in RAM and poke
cuts and note into disk or transmitted
so public links are basically this is
just a capability encoded in the link
itself this is a fairly standard
technique these days but you have the
location which has two parts to it
there's the the public writing key and
there's a label in it which is the
lookup key in the champ and then there's
the actual decryption key and these are
all put appended after the hash in the
URL and so as we know that's not sent to
the server so a public link is actually
more like a secret link because the file
is still on actually exposed to the
network and you can share an individual
file or indeed an entire folder in its
century
so now the next calorie security counter
login we cracked so brute force is
practically impossible with a good
password so it's obviously only as
secure as your password and we we put
some work into trying to help people
choose good passwords so to the point
where now we actually have a button
which will generate a password for you
in the browser but so with a password
that has full of training characters
alphanumeric characters about 294
possibilities or 10 to 25 so GPU can
calculate about a million script hashes
per second damaged by litecoin because
we actually use harder parameters than
like white but it's an estimate so that
means that one GPU cracking a single
users login would take about 10 to the
19 seconds or 300 billion years or if
you had 300 million GPUs it would still
take a thousand years and those 300
million GPUs the costs just to buy them
to learn the electricity to run them
would be 300 billion u.s. dollars so you
can compare that to various budgets and
very
consider you your own threat model but
at the other end of the spectrum if you
drop to even I think something like an
eight character password that actually
only costs something like 10,000 dollars
to crack the year so password length
matters and what about quantum computer
based attacks
I already mentioned that shared files
currently wrongful to the quantum
computer however it files that aren't
shared so just your own files they are
actually already safe and the reason for
this is to get from nothing to reading
your files there's only two operations
the script hashing and there's symmetric
encryption and neither of those are
vulnerable to a computer now
like a factor to speed up a non
exponential speed-up so those are
actually fine and then the classic
complaint that JavaScript crypto is
insecure now yes it is but it depends on
your threat model
so therefore targeting the casual user
of people who are happy to log into a
website from someone they trust then
that's fine they can just download the
JavaScript and log in and do it for
people who are who are more paranoid and
maybe don't trust even DNS then they can
download the source themselves verify it
compile it run it locally and with the
power of IP first they don't need a DNS
address or anything like and so yeah
this we can cater to a range of
fragments basically this is the idea it
has a build security we have
reproducible builds on really both
server and front-end we only have eight
JavaScript dependencies all of them
bended we sell first everything even
fonts
it's nothing from it in third party
loaded in the web UI that also helps if
you want to run it from localhost
offline we have our own deterministic
replacement for web pack and minifiers
and most of the client code is written
in a type safe language so Java and
cross compiled to JavaScript
during a time right let's see what we
can do right it's can people see this
hopefully all right so here we go I've
got this is the demo server I'm logged
in now as then when you see we've got a
bunch of buttons here hopefully they're
mostly self-explanatory this is the
social button where we can we can add
friends and sending a follow request and
so
there's a bunch of different files that
what my thumb notes the thumbnails are
actually encrypted as part of the
metadata for the file server sees
nothing now let's have a look we can do
so if we go in got some images here and
you can view them in browser or download
them if you like okay let's move it is
[Music]
we have a very basic text viewer so
there's a recipe for lamb stew we can
also play videos this is a more
impressive demo so this is a loved one
so if we look at the sizes since I once
had an 20 make so if we play that
Humphrey Meg would take something like a
minute or so to download but this will
start playing as soon as it's downloaded
the first 5 min so you remember the 5
make chunking thing this meat this
allows us to start playing at least in
chrome firefox early but in chrome and
safari OS I think it works we can stream
at 5 min at the time
you
offering something ok at least in chrome
you should be able to stream and play
how much every large video it could be a
bigger by Big Ten media doesn't doesn't
matter
Julio
I can demonstrate the the public link
thing
you
right so actually think about the
directory
not sure why that's this anyway so we
can create a public link to the media
directory I'll open that in a new tab
you can see there's a bunch of other
siblings here too the media directory if
we go to the public link you can see the
URL there we can see the things that
we've just been granted access to and if
we go down a directory then all the
images are there wicked but if you go
back up we can't see any siblings and
that's that's not just to you I think
that's obviously enforce
cryptographically
should just work as it does normally and
there's a helpful sign-up team bottom so
cool yep the rest of it's fairly
self-explanatory and slides right so
yeah the other big news is on Friday we
launched our outfit for pivots so if you
want you can sign off there's a limited
number of spots on it then but yeah
alpha dot pick us don't net now if you
want to read some more we have a little
booklet book stopping us at all or just
check out our source and get them if
future plans we want employment
messaging a large signal inside papers
and an actual document editor text
editor and eventually a sandbox an API
for third-party apps to run inside
papers yeah any any questions thank you
very much if you have any questions if
you could put them in a chat sharing
it'd be great awesome
um do you mind if you let's see alright
excellent first of all thank you very
much for your presentation that's
wonderful
um personally I really like your super
clear diagrams of how you encrypted the
files I think that was very useful thank
you very much um and let us start with
questions so we don't have so much time
um
Davi do you mind picking your most
pressing question and it will move on to
other so they can ask questions I'm also
finding my questions instead of later
every night following here goes for a
while some of these are more like a big
question
others are other curiosities let's start
with a vein and then I quien can pick
one of my questions
alright cool thank you alright a Dean oh
wow you have multiple questions as well
so I'll start with your first one of
your mind the first question is have you
considered using D ID based
authentication schemes how do you evoke
a key so we take the view which is kind
of more information if they're ready for
you once someone has information you
can't take that information away from
them so to revoke it so the keys for
encryption keys or they're all symmetric
keys or there's a signing keys I guess
as well basically you just rotate the
keys if you want to revoke access
so you're just really encrypting the
data and rishe airing with anyone who
wants to you want to still have access
to with the new keys
awesome okay and does anyone else want
to ask a question before I get to our
Dean's a Dean second question
all right second question how do users
share with each other does this require
external messaging so it's all sharing
is internal and so once you you can send
a follower request to someone and that
then gives them a read capability to a
directory in your space for for that
particular friend and when you share a
file with them all that does is attach a
capability to that file into that
directory which they already have read
access to
all right um before I go to one of these
questions I'd like to Oh Molly
you have a question well well I actually
wanted to pick one of David's questions
cuz I thought it was okay about multiple
writers so how do you do kind of
collaboration and other things like that
in cargos so multiple writers okay
it's whoever has has the key at the
moment if it could be literally the same
user on different machines because you
are open s equivalent is basically it
since your storage server so it's not
decentralized in the sense of openness
when we move to openness will be a
backup for it because your machine
disappears the cool thing I think for
now is still essential air service we
don't have fancy CID T's yeah we would
love to do more on those lines in the
long term but for now this this works
and so that what that means is that's
just that's your centralization point
for given writing space and so if you
try to concurrently modify something one
of them will succeed in the long fail
okay so those will be the questions for
the live talk however this is what we're
going to do if anyone else has any
questions when we put up the video if
you can put up the questions in the
comments section then that will be
another like alternative way for you to
get your answers and in terms of next
week or format is going to be slightly
different for the ipfs weekly call oh I
see Ali's face of surprise um for the
ipfs weekly call we're going to have
lightning talks so you can sign up five
minutes during a call if you have a
project that you would like to present
or you have something that you're
working on that you want to get out
there and get some feedback this would
be a perfect forum for that and that is
happening next week next Monday um thank
you everyone
and is that a hand off you
yeah this is a good question is this
something you permit or do we have a
request on github for the new forum yes
well anyway purchase it already so I
think yeah that's been merged and um we
were about to do it this week but we are
going to do it next weekend it's been
something that's been in the works for
about a month so yeah it's there and
it's merged cool alright everyone I will
see you next week and have a good and
have a great week thank you everyone and
thank you I am think thanks